* Graph Theory
** Introduction
  *Def*
  A Graph: $G = (V,E)$
  V is a non-empty set, called vertex set of G.
  E is a subset of 2 element subsets of V, called the edge set of V.
  
  /Eg/
  $V = {A,B,C,D}$
  $E = {AB, AC, AD, BC, BD, CD}$
  $G = (V,E)$ is a graph.
  
   Each entry of V is called a node of G. 
  Each element of E is calld an edge of G.

  We can visualize G in the plane by drawing:
  - Each vertex as a node (a point).
  - Each edge as a line (arc(curve) connecting 2 nodes).

  /Eg2/
  Transportation network between cities:
  - Each city is a vertex.
  - Each road is an edge connecting 2 cities.

  *Other examples*:
  - Computer networks

* Terminology & Special Graphs

  *Def*
  Given $G = (V,E)$ and $ u, v \in V$:
  ~ u, v are ad jacent/ neighbors if uv $\in E$.
  ~ deg u = |\{$v \in V$| u & v are adjacent\}| is the degree of u.
  ~ u is "incident" to an edge $e \in E$ if u is an endpoint of e.
  ~ The edge e is "incident" to u.

** The Handshaking Theorem
  $G = (V,E)$ Then
   $\sum_{u \in V} deg(u) = 2|E|$

** Common graph:
   ~ Star graph: 1 vertex connected to all other vertices.
     $\|V|=n-1, |E|=n$
   ~ Cycles graph: n vertices connected in a cycle.
     $\|V|=n, |E|=n$
   ~ Complete graph: n vertices connected to all other vertices.
     $\|V|=n, |E|=C(n,2)$
   ~ Wheels graph: n vertices connected in a cycle + 1 central vertex connected to all other vertices.
     $\|V|=n+1, |E|=2n$
   ~ Cube graph: Q_n
     $\|V|=2^n, |E|=\frac{total degree}{2}=\frac{n*2^n}{2}=n*2^{n-1}$
   -- Each binary string of length n is a vertex of $Q_n$
   -- 2 binary strings are connected of $Q_n$ they differ in exactly 1 bit.
    /Eg/
    $n=1$:
    0 --- 1
    n=2:
    00 --- 01
    10 --- 11
    10 --- 00
    11 --- 01
    n=3:
    000 --- 001
    010 --- 011
    ...
   ~ Bipatite graphs
    A graph $G = (V,E)$ is bipartite if $V1$,$V2$ $!= \emptyset$ such that: 
    -- $V = V_1 \cup V_2$ where $V_1$ and $V_2$ are disjoint.
    -- $V_1 \cap V_2 = \emptyset$
    /Eg/
    Task assignment problem:
    -- 2 sets of vertices: Staff, Tasks
   -- We have only connections between Staff and Tasks, not among vertices in the same set.
    *Remark*: A graph is bipatite if and only if we can color virtices of it by 2 colours
    such that no vertex pair of same colour connected.
   ~ Complete Bipatite graphs:
    Complete bipatite graph $K_{m,n}$:
   -- $V = V_1 \cup V_2$, $V_1 \cap V_2 = \emptyset$ $V_1, V_2 != \emptyset$ where $|V_1|=m, |V_2|=n$
   -- We have full connections such that vertices in $V_1$ * vertices in $V_2$.
* Graph representation
  ~ $G = (V,E)$
  ~ Adjacent list
    1 --- 2
    \| \\   \|
    \|  \\  \|
    3 --- 4
   1 | 2 3 4 
   2 | 1 4   
   3 | 1 2 4
   4 | 1 3   
  ~ Adgacent matrix
   x 1 2 3 4
   1 0 1 1 1
   2 1 0 1 0
   3 1 1 0 1
   4 1 0 1 0
    Properties: G -> $A_G$
  -- degree of a vertex $v_i$: $deg(v_i)$ = sum of row $v_i$ in adjacent matrix A.
  -- $A_G$ is symetric.
  -- Numbers of waks of length k from $v_i$ to $v_j$ is the (i,j) entry $(A^k)_{G}$.
* Graph Applications
  - Vertex removing
    $v \in V$,$G \\{v}= G' = (V',E')$ 
    $V' = V \\ {v}$
    $E' = E \\ {vt : vt \in E}$
  - Edge removing
    $e \in E$,$G \\{e}= G' = (V',E')$ 
    $V' = V$
    $E' = E \\ {e}$
  - $G_1=(V_1,E_1)$,$G_2=(V_2,E_2)$
    $G_1 \cup G_2 = (V_1 \cup V_2, E_1 \cup E_2)$
  - Given $G_1=(V,E)$, $H=(V',E')$ is a sub graph of G if:
    $V' \subseteq V$ and $E' \subseteq E$
  In other words, H is a graph that can be obtained from G by removing some vertices and edges.

* Digraphs
  $G = (V,E)$
  V is non-mpty set of vertices.
  $E \subseteq V \times V$ is a set of ordered pairs of vertices.

  /Eg/:
  ~ Following relationship in social network.
  -- $V=$ account set.
  -- $E =$ following relationship.
    Visualization:
  -- Each vertex is a node.
  -- Each edge is a directed line connecting 2 nodes.
  ~ Adjacent list:
  Only one direction.
  ~ Adjacent matrix:
    1 when there is a connection from i to j, 0 otherwise.
